---
layout: post
title: Brief
thumbnail: Cr.png
date: 4 September 2020
---

Assignment 2 begins. And it begins with a Part 1, the writing of a creative brief for a **wordmark** of my chosing.

The first question is whether to use Craichaus or the Library as the subject for my wordmark.

Craichaus is my long-nascent web/graphic design company. Outside of my regular, waged work, I have designed a handful of websites, flyers and posters as a freelance designer, but billing my work to this imagined outfit called Craichaus. If I am ever going to make anything of Craichaus, it is going to need a logo and its own design style. On the one hand, I don't want someone else to design my own logo for me. But on the other hand, if I was going to do something about my logo, I would have done it by now.

The other option is Victoria University of Wellington Library. The Library is paying half my fees for this course and while the objective from their point of view is to have a UX developer with more polished design skills, they might expect a bit more of a return.

After quite a bit of thought, I decided to go with Craichaus. I think it is a more interesting project for whoever gets my brief, certainly more interesting than a library. Also, I am very interested to see what someone will come up with for Craichaus, while I'm not even sure the Library even needs a new logo.

So what is the deal with the name “Craichaus”? Well, you'll read all about it in the blog, but very briefly, Craic is an Irish word meaning “fun” and haus comes from Bauhaus, a reference to modern design. Together they mean “funhouse”, but also represent a dichotomy between Irish blarney and German seriousness.

The brief explains this to a greater extent, as well as the true background of Craichaus as my design vehicle, along with a possibly overstated description of Craichaus as being an attitude as well as a name. And writing the brief I couldn't help but write with something of an attitude. The brief's language turned out to be very conversational. I think this works well, if for no other reason than it makes the brief a bit more fun to read. While writing the brief, I referred to the template supplied to us and the samples from last year. However, I found that the template was more of a description of questions a researcher would consider when trying to scope out a project, and less like the description of needs that a firm looking for a log would write. However, I did consider each of the points explicitly given in the template and made sure they were addressed implicitly in my brief.

I then ensured the text was smart and tidy. And, off it goes. Good luck to whoever gets it for the second part of the assignment.
